# Real-Box-Office-Analysis Exploration Branch

## Overview
The purpose of this branch is to explore the features of the dataset and to determine which analytical insights I will seek to create with it. I decided that the first thing I would do is to load each and every source of data available to me, so I could throw out any data that were extraneous or not useful to my analysis.
I decided to not use the data from box office mojo, because it was essentially an inferior version of the data from The Numbers. I also decided not to involve the Rotten Tomatoes data in my analysis because it did not have unique information I thought would be valuable to my analysis. In addition, the method I had come up with to join it with the other data would have resulted in the loss of the majority of the records.
## Data Explaination
The dataset that resulted from my exploratory analysis has just slightly over 2000 records, which I am not very happy with. I feel that this sample size is generally too small to create a meaningful analysis, and if I were to do this project again I would try and generate a larger set of data. The main bottleneck on the size is the limited number of records from The Numbers, which contain all the information relating to profitability - the most important metric in every part of my analysis. There isn't really a way around this small sample size without doing a significant amount of webscraping to find the missing information.
## Results
This exploratory analysis of the data found evidence of correlation between the budget of the movie, aggregate ratings, and total profit. It also found evidence of correlation between the number of markets that each movie was released in and the total profit of the movie. Finally, I was also able to do a basic analysis with a small sample size which indicated that the Hindi speaking movie market is the most lucrative.
I also found a lack of correlation between the runtime of individual movies and their profit.
## Conclusion
The work I did in this branch is essentially the majority of the work I had to do for this project. Now that I know exactly which data I am going to load and the analysis that I want to do, I can keep my main branch notebook clean and only load/clean exactly the data that I need. It also allows me to go straight to the analysis I want to do in the main branch insteawd of exploring different options and explaining my process there.
The only concern I am left with at this point of the analysis is the difficulty of working with the genre column of the IMDB data. Extracting the useful information from it is going to require a complicated list comprehension script, which I did not want to create in this branch of the repository. I will attempt to create it in the main repository when I am cleaning up the data instead. There isn't really a way around doing this, since I plan on making genre profitability another important part of my analysis.